The Lord of Hell, who is bored with his life, abdicates his throne and becomes a civilian consultant for the Los Angeles Police Department while running his own high-end nightclub, called "Lux". Beside superhuman powers such as invulnerability, strength and speed, he has a supernatural awareness of any person's hidden desires.[8] While Lucifer's appearance in the comics was inspired by David Bowie, actor Tom Ellis, however, saw the character as more of an Oscar Wilde or Noel Coward character "with added rock and roll spirit", and thus decided to approach portraying the character of Lucifer as if he were the "lovechild of Noel Coward and Mick Jagger, with a dash of British actor Terry-Thomas".[9]
Lauren German as Detective Chloe Decker[10][11][12][13]
An LAPD homicide detective, who solves crimes with Lucifer after he takes an interest in her because she appears immune to his abilities. Due to an earlier incident concerning a cop shooting, she was ostracized by her fellow officers, resulting in her being partnered with Lucifer as her civilian consultant. When she is around Lucifer, he becomes vulnerable to physical harm. The events of "Quid Pro Ho" reveal that Chloe's conception was the result of a miracle, performed by God with assistance from Amenadiel.
Kevin Alejandro as Detective Daniel "Dan" Espinoza[14]
An LAPD homicide detective and Chloe's ex-husband. He dislikes Lucifer because of the hellraiser's connection to Chloe and their daughter, Trixie. Lucifer repeatedly calls him "Douche" (or "Detective Douche", "Sir Douche", etc.). Originally Chloe's superior on the force, events of the Malcolm Graham case caused Dan to be suspended, then reinstated with a demotion back to Detective.
D. B. Woodside as Amenadiel[15]
A dark-winged angel, Lucifer's older brother, and the eldest out of all of their siblings, who arrives in Los Angeles to encourage Lucifer to go back to Hell, saying the latter's new life is upsetting Earth's balance. Unlike Lucifer, Amenadiel has always followed God's orders. While posing as a psychotherapist, he goes under the pseudonym "Dr. Canaan".
Lesley-Ann Brandt as Mazikeen
Confidante and devoted ally of Lucifer Morningstar. Lucifer calls her "Maze" for short. She is a demon who, having served as his head torturer, followed him up from out of hell, and acted as a bartender and bodyguard at Lucifer's club.[16] In season 2, Maze, looking for a new direction on Earth, becomes a bounty hunter, having found something that feels right to her. She uses the alias "Mazikeen Smith" as her legal identity on Earth.
Scarlett Estevez as Beatrice "Trixie"[17]
Chloe and Dan's daughter, who befriends Lucifer, much to his amazement and disgust, because he "cheers [her] up".
Rachael Harris as Dr. Linda Martin[15]
Lucifer's therapist. She attempts to help Lucifer solve his emotional and personal problems throughout the series, and tries to get him to open up about his true self. Until he reveals to her his true self, Dr. Martin believed that Lucifer was using a religious metaphor, before she accepts that Lucifer is a damaged individual from a dysfunctional family. Dr. Martin had gained her qualifications at Stanford University and holds a large number of awards for psychotherapy.
Kevin Rankin as Detective Malcolm Graham (season 1)[18]
A police officer who was shot prior to the beginning of the series. Chloe Decker witnessed the shooting, which occurred while Malcolm was secretly meeting with a suspected criminal. After the shooting, he was left in a coma. He was then brought back from the dead by Amenadiel to kill Lucifer.
Tricia Helfer as Charlotte Richards/"Mum" (season 2)[19]
Lucifer's and Amenadiel's mother and exiled wifeer of God, who has escaped her prison in Hell. On Earth, her soul occupies the body of Charlotte Richards, a managing partner in a law firm who was just murdered.
Aimee Garcia as Ella Lopez (season 2)
A forensic scientist for the LAPD who helps Chloe and Lucifer with her cases. Ella hails from Detroit, and grew-up with four brothers. Ella wears a crucifix, leading both Lucifer and Chloe to ask questions about her Christian faith; according to Ella, she had an aunt who was a nun, but who taught her that to doubt things was all right, and so Ella believes that questioning things makes her a better scientist.

